---
layout: post
title: 'Potential co-founders: What do you bring to the table?'

---

<p>A startup friend of mine wrote me this today:</p>
<blockquote class="gmail_quote">You don&#8217;t strike me as someone who wishes to partner with people for your projects, but rather would like to be knowledgable enough to staff with the right people, and that definitely seems right for your approach to mid-sized initial targets.</blockquote>
<p>I ended up writing a pretty long response to it, and I&#8217;m reproducing it here:</p>
<p>There&#8217;s a lot of truth to this, but it&#8217;s not really an aversion to partnerships; that behavior is more of a symptom of my underlying approach to startups.</p>
<p><strong>A few bold claims:</strong></p>
<ol><li>Startups are &#8220;sexy&#8221; &#8212; Everyone wants to be involved in startups</li>
<li>Most people like the idea of startups more than startups &#8212; they don&#8217;t know what they&#8217;re doing, and they don&#8217;t have staying power, </li>
<li>Partnerships can be fragile and broken partnerships sink startups</li>
</ol><p>I generally err on the side of being trusting to strangers, but I am quite protective of equity. Usually, if I feel like I can learn enough to know who to trust to do &#8220;commodity&#8221; work, I like the clarity of a deal where I can say &#8220;you do X, you get Y&#8221;.</p>
<p><strong>Partnerships often fall apart because there&#8217;s an implicit, unspoken agreement</strong> like &#8220;we&#8217;re going to bust our butts and then we&#8217;ll both be rich so who cares divide the pie in 2&#8221;.  But then life happens and [&#8220;my dog died&#8221;, &#8220;i got engaged&#8221;, &#8220;i moved to washington&#8221;, &#8220;i ran out of money and had to get a job&#8221;].  <strong>When founders aren&#8217;t equally yoked in a supposedly equal partnership, tensions arise </strong>(&#8220;I&#8217;m doing 80% of the work and getting 50% of the pie!&#8221;) and unfortunately this scenario is startlingly common.  Founders have to find the right combination of expectation, desire, vision, needs in life, skill contribution &#8212; not that they have to be the same, but they have to fit well.</p>
<p>So yes, <strong>I probably seem partner-averse on the outside, but what I really am is always trying to preserve/grow expected value</strong>.  Every transaction I engage in is (hopefully) a step in this direction.  Try to <strong>extract the greatest gain for the lowest cost</strong>.  A lot of times that cost is cash or helping someone out for a favor in return, but there are _absolutely_ times when partnerships are the best value option.</p>
<p><strong>Partnering with weak partners is value destroying</strong> (for the original value holder) and unfortunately, the frothiness of startups makes it generally easy to find weak partners and hard to find strong ones. But I like meeting people and you never know where value is going to come from, so I always like to keep an open mind.</p>
<p>However, there does exist a &#8220;right&#8221; type of partner. Partners aren&#8217;t just about some skill they bring to the table, like &#8220;awesome developer&#8221; or &#8220;best sales guy ever&#8221; but what they draw out of you &#8220;he makes me think critically about problems&#8221; (whatever <strong>the nerd version of &#8220;You complete me&#8221;</strong> is&#8230;).  Great partners should be 1+1= 56 for each other. <strong>In a great relationship, each person should think of him/herself as the weak link.</strong></p>
<p><span>If you can&#8217;t figure out what each person brings to the table that the other(s) need and can&#8217;t otherwise easily get, you&#8217;re overpaying for partners. </span>I want to walk away from interactions with my partners thinking, <span>&#8220;Oh crap I&#8217;m in waaaay over my head&#8221;.  For me that&#8217;s a really clear sign that someone is a value creating partner. </span><span>Then I have to start worrying about whether I bring anything to the table.</span></p>
